RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A SISTER VENTURING OUT
[Sakuta sighs]
Mai, is that you?
Hi, mister.
Do I know you?
I guess I do look a lot
more grown up now, don't I?
My mom told me
that I'm not allowed
to talk to strange old men
So where is
that mom of yours, anyway?
[MAI] Uh...
Well, what's the matter?
Are you lost?
I know where I am.
I just... don't know
where this is.
Didn't you say
you weren't allowed
to talk to weird old men
[MAI] Hmm.
Fine, then.
[SAKUTA] This is Shichirigahama.
It's much smaller than the name
actually suggests.
I'm a student over at
Minegahara High School nearby.
My name is Sakuta Azusagawa.
Now, I'm a little better
than a stranger at least, right?
[inaudible]
[MAN] Azusagawa!
Hey, Azusagawa.
Wake up!
[SAKUTO] Hmm?
Good morning, teach.
[students laugh]
Enough of that.
All right. Kamisato
[Kamisato sighs]
[KAMISATO] Hmm.
You went to a golf academy
in Australia
when you were ten, right?
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16TH
Yes. At first, I couldn't exp...
-[students chattering]
-[school bell chiming]
[TEACHER] Azusagawa!
Yeah, what's up, teach?
Don't "what's up" me!
Career path questionnaire.
Submit it by early next week
[SAKUTA] Oh.
What reaction is that?
Have you talked to your parents
about it yet?
[SAKUTA] I'll get it back
to you if I don't forget.
You're not allowed to forget.
[yawns]
What's wrong?
Is going home with me
really that boring?
I had a bit of a weird dream
so I don't think
I ever really woke up.
And what is wrong
with you
that you woke up
after sixth period is over?
You really should be listening
in your classes.
You want to go to university
with me, right?
Hang on.
I thought you wanted to go
to the same university as me.
Oh, right.
I guess I just love you
more than you love me, huh?
Uh...
Fine. I'm the one who wants
to go to the same university.
-[bell dinging]
-[MAI] Which train is it?
The one for Fujisawa.
You want to run?
Are you that eager to get home
as soon as possible?
Every time the two of us
stop to wait here
I'll wish the railroad
crossing never opened.
That all sounds
very inconvenient.
Before I forget...
What kind of dream was it?
[SAKUTA] Hmm?
You said earlier
you were having
a weird dream in class.
You were a kid
and had on an elementary school
backpack.
Don't look at me like that.
It's not like
the current version of you
was running around wearing it.
Well...
that's a pretty strange dream.
Don't you have a thing
for older women, Sakuta?
[MAI]
But if you're dreaming that...
it's not puberty syndrome
or anything, is it?
You might be overthinking this.
Am I, though?
Puberty syndrome seems
to be drawn to you.
Well, you got me there.
But thanks to
puberty syndrome
that you and I
had a chance to meet at all.
[Mai sighs]
[MAI] We went through a lot.
[SAKUTA] Yeah
I wonder how
Shoko-chan's been doing.
[MAI] Welcome home, Kaede!
[KAEDE] Oh! Hey there, Mai!
[MAI] Oh, look!
You're wearing that coat.
Of course. It's my favorite.
You doing well at school?
She's all worked up
and heads out
in the mornings now.
All right, big brother.
I was, uh...
What's the matter?
Uh, what are
your plans tomorrow?
Well, to be honest, I'm hoping
to enjoy my weekend.
I'm asking if you're free.
Hmm...
I have to work tomorrow.
On Sunday
It's been way too long.
We need to spend some time
fawning over each other.
[KAEDE] Hmm.
That's so upsetting.
Well, good news, Kaede.
I have something
I need to do this weekend.
Oh, is it work again?
Yeah, something like that.
Like what, though?
I see you're walking home
with Sakuta again.
Hello, Ryoko.
The two of us are dating.
Would be weird if
we couldn't walk together.
I'll be upset if I go online
and see a viral photo
of this later.
We already announced publicly
that we're dating.
It's not like it would be
a big scandal.
I know that
you might feel that way
but how many times
have I said--
I hear you.
I'll be careful.
Okay.
I hope you're not just saying
what I want to hear.
Well, I have to go shoot
on a drama series
that I just booked.
Sakuta, I want you
to listen to everything
Kaede tells you, okay?
I'll see you later, Kaede.
[SAKUTA] Hmm?
Hey, Kaede.
What?
Did Mai do something
to make you mad?
Uh, no, of course not!
She's so kind.
Beautiful.
She's just amazing.
All I do is think about how much
I want to be like her.
If that's the case
You're the one I'm upset with.
Huh?
You are completely
in love with Mai.
Of course I am. I mean
Yeah, I know.
I just don't like it.
[SAKUTA] So, you got anything
going this weekend?
[KAEDE] Thinking about what
Miss Miwako asked.
[SAKUTA]
What'd she ask?
[KAEDE] Questions
about the future.
[SAKUTA] Wow. Heavy stuff.
[KAEDE] Yeah, I know.
-Whose future?
-About mine, you dummy!
Yeah, of course it is.
Miss Miwako was saying earlier
that I should try
bringing this subject up
with dad, too.
You figured out what you want
to do with your life, yet?
You say that like I can just...
[KAEDE] This all feels
really sudden.
I don't know.
[elevator bell rings]
SUNDAY, JANUARY 18TH
I'm sorry.
I know it's rude to drop in
on a Sunday.
It's no trouble.
Thank you for coming.
Your tea.
Oh, thank you.
So, to the point...
Will Kaede be able to attend
a standard high school?
Looking at her test results
the schools that
will accept her are limited.
There are a few places
that will accept her
with these grades.
She will have a few options.
I think I understand.
The grades on her application
will matter more
for a prefectural school.
Exactly.
As she is
her grades would put
her request to enroll
at a disadvantage.
There are private schools
that base entrance solely
on a student's exam results.
But as a school counselor
I am hesitant to recommend them
wholeheartedly.
For cases of non-attendance
in middle school students
there's quite a high
percentage
of those issues continuing
in high school.
There are even students
that ultimately drop out.
For high school
there are a few options
other than full time.
Each place has
its own specializations
but all of them offer
remote options now.
One advantage
of remote schooling
is watching video lectures
and studying in your own home
on your own time.
You wouldn't need
to worry about
fitting in with your classmates.
And in terms of meeting
graduation requirements
there's no difference between
full time and online.
When it comes to online schools
I've heard the dropout rates
are high.
At least when compared
to graduation rates
of full time schools.
I'm afraid that's correct.
I won't pretend
the online option
works perfectly
for every student.
It requires a healthy pace
for studying independently.
It's also important
to have support at home
to help guide them.
[SAKUTA] Kaede, what do you
want to do?
[Kaede exclaims]
[KAEDE] I want...
I guess...
I want what everyone wants.
Does that mean you would
like to go
to a full-time campus, Kaede?
[KAEDE] Mm-hmm.
Is there a specific school
you'd like to go to?
Yeah, there is.
It doesn't cost anything
to say it.
I want to apply
where big brother is.
I really want us to go
to school together.
I see.
You could have said
that earlier, you know.
I'm not in favor of Kaede
applying to
Minegahara High School.
At her current academic level
she has a very low likelihood
of being accepted.
I'd like to prepare her
for a career path
that's more realistic.
Oh.
[door closes]
I wonder if she hates me now.
Don't worry about it.
She'll forget as soon as
she eats some pudding.
-[clattering]
-Hmm?
You're going back already?
Yeah.
What about Kaede?
She's in her room.
She responded when
I said I was leaving.
-She'll be fine.
-I see.
Sakata.
Huh?
Do you know what your plans are?
I'm going to university.
I'm going to try to earn
my own tuition
as much as I can.
But if I run short
Please.
All right. [chuckles]
What's with the laugh?
I'm counting on you.
With Kaede.
[sighs]
Say ahh!
Ahh!
MONDAY, JANUARY 19TH
Mmm.
Oh, that was
a really good lunch.
Thank you for making it.
It was nothing at all.
Can I ask what brought this on
all of a sudden?
No reason.
I just had an urge
to make you lunch, that's all.
Oh! What's this?
An answer sheet
for an admissions test.
Like, from a past exam?
Nope. For this year.
Oh. Uh, why are you practicing
for this year?
I've been working
on this mock exam
the last few days
so I'm checking my score.
It's useful.
I just put in the answers
on my phone
and I can see my result.
Hang on. You're gonna take
the exam this year?
I thought you were gonna
wait a year
and take some time off
so we could enroll
as freshmen together.
I want to get it
out of the way this year.
Then I'll take time off
before we start.
I thought it might
motivate you to study
like your life
depended on it, too.
[sighs, exclaims]
Are you thinking
it'd be better
if I didn't get accepted?
[SAKUTA] Of course not.
I was thinking I might want
something to get me pumped
for all that work, that's all.
Hmm.
How about we go on a date
after school, then?
I don't have work today.
I heard that Innoshima has
a tulip super bloom right now.
[SAKUTA]
Oh, I have something today.
Working?
Yeah, something like that.
Did you do that
to get back at me?
[SAKUTA] Ow, ow, ow!
Hmm? Oh, hey.
Are you scheduled to work today?
I'm just meeting up
with someone.
Are you meeting your girlfriend?
Not right now.
Try not to cheat on her
if you can help it.
-Hey, Kunimi.
-Hmm?
Do you have any big plans
after your graduation?
Probably take the test
to be a firefighter.
Glad to know
I'll be in good hands
when my house is on fire.
You shouldn't play
with matches anyway.
Did you tell Futaba that, too?
Yeah, and she said
she'll be careful.
Sakuta, hi!
Did I make you wait?
No, I just got here
a few minutes ago.
Sakuta definitely has a thing
for older women.
I'm home.
-Huh?
-[chopping]
Is someone here?
Oh! Welcome home, Sakuta.
I thought I'd borrow
the kitchen.
What are you doing here?
I bumped into Kaede downstairs
on my way back.
You forgot to tell your sister
you had something going on, huh?
So you came over and decided
to make dinner for Kaede
because you thought
there might be a chance
I would be back home too late?
[TOYOHAMA] You're back.
What exactly is Toyohama
doing here?
My big sis said she was
eating dinner at your place
so I decided to tag along.
You shouldn't tag along.
It's time to leave the nest.
Huh?
Oh, did Sweet Bullet's
live video come out?
[TOYOHAMA]
It's from our concert.
They gave us some samples
Then we should have
a screening party.
Do not do that.
I'm trying to tutor Kaede
in English right now.
Nothing less from
our highly-educated idol.
[footsteps]
There's something you want
to tell him, isn't there?
Yeah.
[chair scrapes on floor]
I... I was...
I... Umm...
I was hoping...
I wanted...
I really want to go to
the same high school as you.
Hmm.
Here. Fill this out.
Huh?
KANAGAWA PREFECTURAL
MINEGAHARA HIGH SCHOOL
ENROLLMENT APPLICATION
(FULL-TIME)
[exclaims softly]
I got one from Tomobe
earlier today
so make sure you study hard.
I'll do my best.
But I have a favor
I need to ask you.
Hmm?
Do you think...
you could tutor me?
[sighs]
[giggles]
[laughs]
Don't blame me if you don't
get accepted, okay?
SCIENCE CLUB COFFEE
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20TH
-I have a question for you.
-Hmm?
Are you going to apply
to the same university
as Sakurajima, or am I wrong
about that?
Yeah, I am. I thought
I told you before.
Because of that, studying for
entrance exams is awful.
You haven't seemed
to notice yet.
So I'm going to tell you
something as a friend.
And what's that?
The answer key you're using
is for the high school exams.
Something you want
to talk about?
Oh. I'm reviewing the material
I need to help Kaede with.
I'm relieved to hear
it's intentional.
She wants to apply
for a prefectural school?
Yeah.
She said she wanted
to apply to go here.
I see.
That must be quite hard
to juggle at home.
Honestly, you already saved me
quite a bit.
Hmm?
You tutored her over the summer.
Yes, but that was before Kaede
had regained all her memories.
I know. I don't think
she really remembers
when she studied back then
but I do think she remembers
what she studied about.
So you came here because
you wanted to tell me this?
I was free before work
so I just came here
to kill some time.
Well, regardless
of today's reason
I'm glad
you weren't consulting me
about puberty syndrome again.
-Oh. About that...
-Hmm?
I had a dream about Mai
where she looked very young.
What do you think that means?
It's a premonition that
you're going to prison.
No worries there.
I think Mai, as she is
But seriously though
Does it matter what it means?
Why wouldn't it matter?
Even if the dream you had
was puberty syndrome
in some form, it's all going
to work out fine in the end.
You really think so?
It doesn't matter what happens
you'll always make do somehow.
Just what kind of guy
do you think I am, Futaba?
I think you're surprisingly
reliable.
Hmm.
You have done enough for me
to say that confidently.
Well, the things you're saying
are kind of making me
feel queasy.
There's only so much stuff that
I can try to pull off on my own.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 23RD
WONDERFUL ENGLISH VOCABULARY
[door opens, closes]
What you got going on there
What does it look like
I'm doing?
Looks like
you're studying to me.
Correct.
So, uh, you're going
to go to college?
If I get accepted.
What about work?
Are you quitting?
I mean, I guess
I don't really care.
I'll continue working.
I'll need the money
one way or another.
Oh, okay.
Hmm.
I have something important
I wanted to say.
What? It's not
something weird, is it?
I think your skirt might be
a bit too tight, Koga.
[exclaims]
You sure you're wearing
the right size?
Of course I am.
This is mine.
Maybe you should ask the manager
if you can go a size up.
I am not doing that.
Huh?
Is that a customer?
[SAKUTA] I'll get her.
That's my little sister.
Oh, she is?
That's right.
I think I remember
you mentioning her before.
Did you come here alone?
Oh, hey, big bro.
I, uh...
Oh, you brought Mai with you.
[MAI]
That "oh" sounded disappointed.
Well, I'm glad that
you're worrying about me
while I'm still stuck at work.
I went by your place
with a souvenir
I brought from my shoot
in Nagasaki.
Kaede says she hasn't had
her dinner yet.
I have to submit my application
next week.
Yeah. You do.
I need to take it
to the school campus by myself.
So I thought I could practice
making the trip.
Even though Mai has come
with you
I'm surprised you made it here.
It was better than heading out
in my school uniform.
It was a little scary
outside the station
there were so many people.
Oh, wow. You worked hard.
Huh? [chuckles]
[SAKUTA]
Thank you so much for waiting.
This is your pasta combo
and omelet rice.
This looks good.
Then let's hurry and eat.
Oh, yes.
Time to dig in.
Don't mind if I do.
[KAEDE] My cheeks are so full!
Big brother
are they gonna fall off?
Something wrong?
Huh?
It's hard to eat when
you're staring like that.
I'm fine. Nothing going on.
You're not gonna talk me
out of worrying about you
if I want to.
You look like you were
a million miles away.
Really?
I think I'm like this every day.
Isn't that right, Mai?
Yes. That's right.
Sakuta is like this every day.
I guess I just feel like...
What's up?
[KAEDE] It's nothing.
Never mind.
Oh, that's right.
I wanted to ask
if you were working
the next two days.
Hmm. I'm pretty sure
I'm working both days.
Okay.
So I'll have to
start tutoring you at night.
Then you can study with me
in the afternoon.
Oh. Do you have the time off?
Yeah, they changed
the filming schedule
so I have both days off
this weekend.
I was hoping we could
go out on a date
sometime soon.
I guess we can't
if you're working.
Hmm...
SUNDAY, JANUARY 25TH
Huh?
Did you have any trouble?
I didn't switch trains
to get here.
I meant in the station.
Your head is so thick, you know.
Sometimes it's a pain
to deal with.
Well, I appreciate
you coming in with me
on your day off.
It's fine.
I was hoping
I could ask you
to participate in this school
orientation anyway.
So I was relieved to hear you
bring this subject up.
[SAKUTA] I'm sure it'd
be better
if Kaede were able
to attend herself.
[MIWAKO] Of course, that's
always the best option.
But she still has
her entrance exams, right?
I thought you said that
you were against her applying
to a prefectural school.
As a school counselor, I am.
That's something
I've always been able
to admire you for.
Well, thank you.
[MIWAKO] So how do you feel
about it, then?
[SAKUTA] About what?
[MIWAKO] Kaede's entrance exam.
Do you think she'll be accepted?
I mean, I'm hoping that
she'll be accepted.
I don't think you realize it
but your answers
can be snarky sometimes.
All right, well
that it will be hard for her
to get accepted
but she's not going to give up
until she actually
takes the exam
and the grade she gets
is shoved in her face.
[MIWAKO] I just worry
that Kaede might get hurt
if she doesn't pass.
[SAKUTA] If that happens
I'll be there
as her older brother
to help her through it.
I'm so glad
you're responsible enough
to accept that role in her life.
So you're a good big brother.
That's nice to know.
Maybe you should think
about being a teacher.
Yeah? And why is that?
I think it suits you.
AOBOSHI HIGH SCHOOL
ORIENTATION THIS WAY
In a full time schooling option
30 to 40 students are assigned
to the same classroom
spend the same times
together every day
and receive the same
academic curriculum.
We do this despite the fact
that students
will be approaching it
with different levels
of understanding.
At our campus
you can watch from computers
or smartphones
and each and every student
has the option
to learn at their own pace.
All of us here believe
that online learning
is the leading form
of education
and will set the standard
for how schooling operates
in the future.
Those are the principles
we have
and they are what
this school is founded upon.
That brings us to the end
of my speech.
We have a video to share
with you.
You'll get to hear
from actual students
who took classes on campus.
Let's play it, please.
STUDENT INTERVIEW
HOW WAS IT AFTER
SPENDING A YEAR HERE?
At first, I wasn't sure
about online classes.
I had this idea in my head
of what it was going
to be like.
I didn't believe
it was a real school.
But then we had uniforms
and we still have homeroom.
We even have a chat program
to take roll call.
You don't have to participate
every day.
But I like to.
It's nice to watch
the other students
during discussions.
Eventually, I started
participating a lot more.
I even have some friends now.
I really love learning English.
I wanted to study it more.
I did an English learning
program abroad in the summer.
We even have extracurriculars.
At first, we had our meetings
in the class chat
but we had a lot
of similar hobbies.
[GIRL]
I had actually enrolled
in a traditional full-time
high school
when I first started.
But I was having some trouble
getting into the swing
of things with all my classes.
Eventually
I just stopped going
altogether.
[SAKUTA] It's that girl
from Sweet Bullet.
Idols don't wear panties.
I struggle a lot.
People tell me
I can't read the room.
I felt all alone in my classes
and I definitely didn't want
to be stuck
reading a room all day.
I felt sick of trying.
So I stopped attending school
for six months.
But then I learned
about this place
and started right away.
I dropped out of my old school
and now I have
a group of friends.
They still laugh
whenever I'm being
really awkward and stuff
but they all love me for it.
[MIWAKO] So, what did you think?
I think you can get in
even if you're an idol
who doesn't wear panties.
Sorry, idol?
What did you say?
Oh, just an inside joke.
[SAKUTA] But, uh...
It's pretty different
from what I had imagined.
The interviews
made it sound like
everyone was having fun there.
I mean, that's got to count
for something, right?
I'm ho...
[softly] Welcome back.
I heard she was up late
studying last night.
I thought I'd take a break
to make the two of us some tea
but she passed out
when I turned around.
She's been pushing herself hard.
We can let her
keep sleeping for a bit.
[unzipping]
[MAI} Sakuta, I'm coming in.
Mmm.
Hurry up and
put your clothes back on.
Sorry to say this Mai, but...
Say what?
You were the one
that opened the door
before I could give you
permission to, right?
That's right.
[SAKUTA] No!
So then, how was work?
Oh, yeah.
There were so many
rude customers today.
I wish you could just heal me.
[grunts]
What?
Where did you really end up
going today?
Is there something
you're trying to say?
Yes. I'm asking you
to tell me the truth
about where you went today.
I know you lied to Kaede
and I about working.
[sighs]
Here.
Oh, is this all?
Why did you need
to keep this a secret from me?
Because I wanted to try
and keep you from lying to her.
Why?
I'm a better liar than you are.
Well, to be honest
I didn't want Kaede
to go into all of this feeling
like she was the odd one out
That's why I was trying to
keep you in the dark about it.
Well, putting it that way
makes it a lot harder
for me to bully you.
Okay, since you're such
a good liar
I want you to pretend like
you've never heard about this.
When are you going
to talk to Kaede?
I want her to concentrate
on the entrance exam.
So, after that.
I'm sure it will come
as a shock.
She might end up hating you
if you don't support her.
You're in a rough spot.
I'll have you to comfort me
if that happens
so I'll be fine.
Oh, I'm totally on Kaede's side
if that happens.
Huh?
I mean I don't want Kaede
to hate me too.
Maybe I want you to think
about my feelings a bit more.
I always think of your feelings.
I'm glad to see
the scar is gone.
-Hmm?
-Your chest.
Yeah. And it's a shame.
Don't you think a man like me
needs something like that
to make him look beefy?
Put on a shirt or
your beef will catch cold.
You weren't wanting me
to do anything to you?
[chuckles]
-[exclaims]
-Hello? You're home?
Kaede, no!
It's not what you think.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29TH
[chalk scribbling]
Sir?
What is it?
May I go to the restroom?
Hold it in.
It'll leak.
Fine. Then go.
It's a number two.
So I'm gonna be a while.
Too much information.
[students laugh]
ENTRANCE APPLICATION
RECEPTION UP AHEAD
Excuse me.
Yes?
Is there an application
from someone named
Kaede Azusagawa?
What?
Oh, she's my little sister.
She's been home-schooled
for a long time.
I was worried
about her getting it in.
Hold on just a minute.
Are you sure you can submit it
on your own?
I'll be all right.
No application yet.
Thank you very much.
I hope she's okay.
[gasps]
[door opens]
ENTRANCE APPLICATION
RECEPTION UP AHEAD
[gasps]
Why are you surprised?
You came to apply, right?
Yeah.
Hello there.
Hello.
You're turning in
an application?
Yes.
[Kaede breathing shakily]
Here it is.
[WOMAN] Yes.
Let's see.
You're Miss Kaede Azusagawa?
[KAEDE] Yes.
[WOMAN] Okay, we have received
your application.
Good luck on your exam.
Thank you.
Big brother!
Why are you here?
I needed to use the toilet
during class
so I was already in the area.
High school's bathroom is
outside the main building?
Mm.
Winds are strongest
near the seashore.
What?
I know you tried hard today.
I only came here to
submit my application.
All right. I'm gonna
start heading home.
Hold it, Kaede.
What's up?
Can you take off your glove?
No, don't.
[sighs]
It looks worse than it is.
You know, Kaede...
It's gonna heal up just fine.
I'll be able to take the exam
and I can commute
to high school.
Please don't tell me I can't.
I know I can
I know I can also...
I can do...
[SAKUTA] Hey, now.
What makes this school
so special anyway?
[crying]
Well, I guess the reason
doesn't matter.
I didn't put very much thought
into what school I picked.
What are you doing, brother?
Nobody said you couldn't
It didn't matter.
If this is what you want to do
every step of the way.
Even if no one else likes it.
Really?
Really really.
But in return, you gotta
tell me what's going on
with the bruises you have, okay?
[sighs]
Thank you.
[SAKUTA] For what?
It made me happy that you got
so worried about me.
Just watch your step going down.
Don't slip up.
Don't say that to me
right before I take an exam.
[♪ soft music playing]
[inaudible]
♪
FEBRUARY 16TH, DAY OF THE EXAM
Rise and shine. Come on.
You'll be late.
Today's exam day.
-What time is it right now?
-7:00.
Oh, geez. If that's the case
I was so nervous
What do I do?
What if I get sleepy
during the test?
I'm sure there are a bunch of
other students
who had anxiety all night, too.
Don't worry.
You think so?
People aren't that different.
Okay.
Everyone feels like this?
Did you feel scared too?
I was so nervous
I had to go to the bathroom
mid exam.
I think that would make me
more nervous.
And I'm talking about poop.
[KAEDE] Oh, you're so gross.
Oh! Scrambled eggs!
[BOTH] Thank you for the food.
[exclaims]
It tastes just like how mom
makes them.
That's because
I asked Mai
to teach me
how to make them for you.
This is so good.
All right, eat quicker
or you really will be late.
It wouldn't be right
to eat these fast.
If you like it that much
Well, if I'm being honest
now that I've eaten a few more
bites of your scrambled eggs
Mai's are better.
Of course they are.
She is the best after all.
[SAKUTA] Here. Don't forget
to take this with you.
[KAEDE] What is this?
What's it look like?
A lunchbox.
Correct.
After I told you yesterday
I wouldn't need one
because I'd pick up
some rice balls?
If you don't want it
I do want it.
You'll mess up the food
if you keep shaking it.
Hey, ah, big brother?
Hmm?
Thanks for the lunch.
It's great.
I'm happy.
-Registration number?
-Yeah.
-Got your lunch?
-Got it.
Your pens and pencils?
I packed them all up.
You didn't forget anything?
Nope.
[SAKUTA] That scarf is great.
[KAEDE] It's the one
that Mai gave me.
It's nice and warm.
I'd expect nothing less
from Mai.
Big brother, that's all you say.
Well, you did
everything you could.
So do as much as you can.
Yeah.
If anything goes wrong
See ya.
Could you wait a second?
Hmm?
What is it?
Uh, um, I... I just...
Yeah?
I'll do this.
I can do it, too.
Just do it in moderation.
Come on. I'm trying
to be serious.
I really don't want you
to hurt yourself.
[sighs]
All right then.
I can also do my best.
Oh, your train is here.
Mm-hmm. Thank you
for seeing me off.
PREFECTURAL MINEGAHARA
HIGH SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAM SITE
[breathing deeply]
[stomach grumbling]
Maybe I'll eat something.
[meows]
[♪ music playing on TV]
TO THE SPECIAL VERSION OF YOU
A special version of you...
Look at how adorable
my girl is when she's working.
-[microwave dings]
-She never calls me, though.
-[phone ringing]
-Hmm?
Could this be destiny?
MAI SAKURAJIMA
Hey, Mai, question.
[MAI] What?
Do you know
about Valentine's Day?
Is there anyone
that doesn't know?
I just wanted to make sure
that you did. That's all.
I know about it.
So when is it?
It was two days ago
And what kind of day is it?
Let me guess what
you were expecting.
I bet you wanted me to give you
some chocolate as a gift
then maybe spend our time
doing something
a little sweeter?
To be specific, I was hoping
I could lay my head
in your lap while
you were dressed as a bunny girl
and get fed whatever chocolate
you gave me.
If I did end up doing that
you'd get chocolate
down the wrong pipe.
What happened with Kaede?
She seemed like
she felt pretty good
when she left this morning.
Thanks to all your help.
And what are you up to?
I was studying with the hope
that you might give me
a compliment.
Yeah, yeah. Way to go.
I want some kind of reward.
Only after I'm done
with all my entrance exams.
Oh, wait. Really?
What now?
Is that bad?
Well, it's just...
I know you
and I thought you weren't going
to let me lay a finger on you
until I got accepted
into the university.
You know, if I did that
I'd be holding out
just as much as you.
So, are you sexually frustrated?
I didn't mean that erotically.
Are you okay?
Did something happen?
Why ask that out of nowhere?
I'm fine. The filming
is going smoothly.
Do you want me
to come over right now
and give you a hug?
You know that Ryoko
will get mad if you do that.
Just chill out and wait
for Kaede to come home, okay?
I'll see you later.
Ryoko is calling me
-[phone rings]
-Hmm?
Hello, Azusagawa.
[MAN] Hello.
I am one of the teachers
over at Minegahara High School.
[SAKUTA] It's me, sir. Kaede...
Did something happen
to my little sister?
[panting]
[MAN] It looks like she got sick
during lunch break.
She's resting in
the nurse's office right now
but she doesn't want
to talk to anyone.
Ideally, we'd speak
with her parents.
[SAKUTA]
I'll be right there.
I can let her parents know
what happened.
[♪ pensive music playing]
[sighs]
[panting]
NURSE'S OFFICE
[exhales]
[sighs]
Kaede...
I'm here now.
Can I see you?
Did you get hurt?
They said that
you started feeling sick
during your lunch break.
Was the lunch I made
really that bad
or was it something else?
No, it was delicious.
I see.
So you weren't prepared
for how delicious
it was going to be.
No.
I left early in the morning
so I could get to school
faster than anyone else.
[SAKUTA] It was a smart move
to leave the house early.
[KAEDE] When I got here
I was too scared
to go in the classroom.
But nobody ended up
looking at me
so I could go and take my seat.
[SAKUTA] I see.
[KAEDE] The English test
in first period
seemed to go super great.
I recognized questions
from tutoring with Nodoka
so I was like, "Yay!" You know?
She has been working hard to be
a highly-educated idol
I guess.
And then in Japanese
there was a kanji problem
that Mai had taught me.
I wrote it the right way.
I'd expect nothing less
from Mai.
Even in math, third period
I knew how to solve
factorization
because you taught me.
Well, I did see how hard
you studied.
And then the lunch
was so delicious
I thought that it would
give me the energy
to finish the day.
[breath trembling]
But then...
despite all that...
a girl in the same uniform...
When I went to the bathroom
in the hallway
our eyes met.
And when I thought
she was looking at me
I got scared.
And then I felt sick.
I want to try.
I want to go to the classroom
everyone else is in.
But every time I think
about it, my chest gets tight
and I feel so scared.
I'm so afraid all the time.
Kaede, I know you tried
your hardest.
[cries] But I didn't, though.
You wouldn't be frustrated
if you didn't put in
your all, right?
I didn't do it.
I didn't give it
everything I had.
I gave up.
I'm the worst person.
I just gave up.
I wanted to do my best.
I...
[SAKUTA]
You know you did, Kaede.
Believe me, I've been watching
the whole time.
I know the other me is trying
harder than I am.
[gasps]
All this...
is because that person exists.
[crying]
Your efforts are
all your own, Kaede.
[KAEDE]
Yeah, but Mai is nice to me.
Nodoka is nice to me.
That's all because
the other version of me
tried so hard.
I owe everything to her.
She gave me all my friends.
All the people that love me
loved her too.
But I still can't...
I can't do anything.
I can't give anything back.
[SAKUTA] That's okay.
Try not to think about that.
[KAEDE] I'm sure this would be
easier if I hadn't changed.
If I was still her.
Hey, now. Kaede.
You can say it.
You like the other me
more than me.
Don't you?
[gasps]
Azusagawa?
Is now a good time?
[grunts]
[exclaims]
Should I come back later?
No, it's all right.
What is it?
The exams are over
and the room is empty.
But your sister's things
are still sitting in there.
I'm sure she couldn't think
straight enough
to look at the sea.
What is...
KAEDE AZUSAGAWA
Did she bring this
all the way here?
STRATEGIES FOR GETTING OUT
MOM WAS TALKING TO THE DOCTOR
FOR A WHILE.
THEY WERE TALKING
ABOUT SICKNESS.
[KAEDE] I want to go to
high school with big brother.
That's Kaede's dream.
[exclaims]
Wait.
That's right.
This was the other Kaede's
dream.
This was the dream
that Kaede thought
she could never achieve.
[KAEDE] I wanted...
I really want to go to the
same high school as you.
Do you think
you could tutor me?
I'll do this. I can do it too.
[sighs]
[SAKUTA] Toyohama?
Hey! It's me.
Why are you calling me?
-I need a favor.
-Huh?
I don't know who to ask.
You're the only one
I thought of.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20TH
[footsteps]
[♪ music playing over earphones]
Hey, Mai!
You know, you smell
really good today.
Please don't smell me in public.
What are you listening to
on your phone?
Something I heard about
at my agency.
Apparently, it's popular with
middle and high school students.
TOKO KIRISHIMA
[♪ music continues]
How has Kaede been feeling
about everything?
She's been spiraling out
pretty hard.
I see.
She really put her all in.
The hardest part of this
is that she has to get
through it on her own.
Mm-hmm.
Sorry to say this, but I have
to end our date here.
I can stay for at least
five more minutes.
Well, I gotta head home.
Oh.
Do you have anything to say
before your girlfriend
takes her entrance exams?
I'm rooting for you.
[chuckles]
[SAKUTA] I'm home.
[cat meows, purrs]
SCHOOL BROCHURE
[door opens]
[KAEDE]
Uh, welcome home, big brother.
Hey, good to see you.
Um, so you know...
Hmm?
About the other day...
The other day?
When I went in for the exam?...
Yeah?
I wanted to talk to you
about something I said, but...
Never mind.
Don't worry about it.
Hey, Kaede.
What is it?
Are you free tomorrow?
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21ST
Big brother
We're here already.
[KAEDE] This is the place?
[SAKUTA] I think
it was somewhere
around here anyway.
Kaede, come here and help me
find the event stage.
Huh? What event?
[♪ music playing over speakers]
It's this way.
[♪ singing in Japanese]
[all cheering]
Hello, everyone!
We are Sweet Bullet!
I haven't seen Nodoka
on stage before.
This is great.
Yeah, the other members as well.
I can't believe
we're back here again.
All of us are so excited.
Hmm?
Huh? Is it just me then?
Suki, I'm confused.
What do you mean
What? This is where
we had our first concert.
Hang on. Did that concert
not happen here? Am I wrong?
We haven't performed
here before.
No way. I bet aliens
got in my head
and messed with
my memories.
What do I do?
It's aliens every time with you.
[crowd laughs]
That girl in the middle...
Regular full-time classes
didn't work for her
so she started going
to an online school.
When I went to this
one orientation
without telling you
I happened to see her in
a student interview.
Oh, wow, really?
Okay, well, let's move on
to our next song.
This is the last one of the day
so let's burn it out.
[crowd cheering]
[♪ music playing]
[SAKUTA] Listen
Minegahara high school
if that's the school you feel
you want to go to
I'll cheer you on
with everything I've got.
[KAEDE] Well, isn't the exam
already over?
[SAKUTA] I'm sure there'll be
a second round of registration.
[Kaede sighs]
[SAKUTA] But if attending
Minegahara High isn't something
that this version of yourself
wants to do
you don't have to force yourself
into going.
Mai and Toyohama
feel the same way.
Think about Dad and Tomobe.
They don't want something
like that.
And really, I don't think
the other Kaede does either.
[gasps]
As long as the person
you are now
is still able to keep
finding joy in little things
I'm fine with whatever
you choose.
I want you to go out there
and have fun.
I want you to laugh
at the silliest things
and enjoy your life.
That's all I care about.
Let's just imagine
you did get accepted.
If going to a school
like that only makes things
harder for you
I can't be happy about that.
I guess. But then I...
I do want to have
that experience
everyone else gets.
It's embarrassing for me
to be different.
Are you saying
that girl up there
should be embarrassed?
No, because I think
she is amazing.
Even though she's different
from everyone else?
I don't know.
Well, why don't you wait until
after you talk to her
to make big decisions?
Talk to her?
Yeah, I asked Toyohama.
She said Uzuki would
give us some time.
I want to get to
know the school.
We could ask her
some questions.
[♪ music continues]
-[music ends]
-[all cheering]
-[KAEDE]Big brother?
-Hmm?
[KAEDE] You really
won't be upset
if I don't go to Minegahara?
[SAKUTA] Every day the other
Kaede was around
she put in 100%.
She woke up in a hospital bed
out of nowhere.
She didn't know who or
where she was.
I bet she was probably
pretty scared.
All of that is a lot to take in.
-Mm-hmm.
-Oh, man.
She did everything
she possibly could
to be my little sister.
And by filling that role
Kaede turned me
into a big brother.
[KAEDE]
My other self sounds...
really amazing.
[SAKUTA] So when
that Kaede disappeared
I couldn't help but be sad.
I cried so many tears.
I feel like I'm gonna choke up
talking about it.
I guess you do like her more.
But you know, Kaede
as much as I had cried over it
I felt just as much relief.
-I was really happy.
-Huh?
Because the Kaede I knew
was finally back.
Is that true? Really?
Of course it is.
Come on.
What kind of guy
do you think I am?
How was I supposed to know?
I can't know. Not if you never
tell me anything.
This whole time, I thought
you liked my other self
better than you liked me.
And... I thought that...
I thought I had to try
and be her replacement.
Stop overthinking this.
I don't like one more
than the other.
-Really?
-You're both regular girls.
What does that mean?
Both of you are
my little sisters
so I like you both the same.
Besides, talking about
my sister all the time
is sounding kind of weird.
[chuckles]
Oh, you know what, big brother?
-Hmm?
-I thought of something.
I want to go
to the zoo sometime.
Gotta get our money's worth
on our annual passes.
I want to see the pandas.
You're a fan
of pandas too, Kaede?
I admire pandas.
They seem pretty sturdy.
You can stare at them
for as long as you want
and they don't even care.
Pandas are amazing.
That makes sense.
[NODOKA] Hey, Sakuta!
-Hmm?
-Hey, you two, over here.
We should go out
to a different spot.
Come on, hop in.
Oh, okay.
ENTRANCE TO TSUJIDO BEACH
So, we officially meet!
Uzuki Hirokawa.
I'm Sakuta Azusagawa.
Oh, and I'm, uh...
Kaede Azusagawa.
Nice to meet you.
Yeah, it's really nice
to meet you, too.
Since both of you have
the same last name
I'll just call
the big brother, Sakuta
and then the little sister
will be Kaede.
Okay. So what are you two
gonna call me?
Um, I, uh...
I'm just gonna simply
call you Hirokawa.
You can call me Zukki, you know.
That's what I'm calling you
in my head.
Oh, good. I'm glad to hear that.
Then you can think
of her as Doka.
Of course.
Don't do that.
Hey, Toyohama.
-What now?
-I can see your panties.
-Oh, he's right.
-Don't look!
-Uzuki.
-Huh?
Don't act like your panties
aren't hanging out.
-What?
-You shouldn't spread
your legs in a mini skirt.
And you should not face
this way when I'm driving.
So, uh, is this somebody's
sister, or...
He thinks
you're our sister, Mom.
That's dangerous.
Cut that out.
I'm Uziki's mother.
Didn't you have some questions
about the school and stuff?
[UKUZI] That's right.
You can ask me
anything you want, Kaede.
[KAEDE] Okay.
I wanted to know.
Did you have
any specific reasons
when you chose to go
to this high school?
It was because you picked it
for me, right?
Don't answer a question
with a question.
[UKUZI] What? It's the truth
When I stop going to
school altogether
you brought me
the brochure and said
"Why don't you quit the place
you're going to now
and go here instead?"
It was middle school
when I started becoming
more active as an idol.
So when I was working
and going to school
I didn't have any time to
see my friends or do anything.
You don't get invited to stuff
if you keep turning it down.
At least that's what happens
with girls, I don't know.
Yeah, totally.
I just thought
I could figure it all out
by the time I got
into high school.
The first time I played hooky
it was only going
to be for a day.
But I took the next day off too
and I stayed home
the day after that.
Then it just stayed that way.
So, as her mother
how did you feel about all
of this when it was going on?
To be honest with you
I was at the end of my rope.
I was lost.
There wasn't much I could do.
I'm sure
you're probably thinking
I'm a failure as a mother.
[SAKUTA] No.
I'd never think that.
[UKUZI] Actually
the fact that you didn't tell me
to go to school
was a relief for me, you know.
[UZUKI'S MOTHER]
I didn't put very much
into going to
high school either.
I don't look it
Oh. Don't worry.
You look like it.
Sakuta, you're a funny kid.
But more to my point
into going to a school
that she didn't like.
But as a parent
I did want her to graduate
from high school.
It's not like my husband and I
really care about her
getting straight A's.
But you can't work as an idol
your whole life, right?
I'm totally gonna
be able to do it.
At the core of it all
I can't help but be worried.
So if it was a school that
Uzuki felt like attending
I wanted her to go there.
That's why I started looking
into all the options
for schools.
Then I gave her the pamphlets
of schools I found.
I think you should tell her
all the rest from here.
I'll be waiting for you guys
in the cafe over there.
[Sakuta sighs]
Of all the places...
My hats off to Ukuzi
you are an idol
that can't read the room.
What? Is this a bad spot?
-I know I've told you before.
-About what?
-[grunts]
-Hmm? [shrieks]
I'm so sorry, Kaede.
Oh, don't worry about it.
I mean, I was
a little surprised
but really, I'm doing okay.
Besides, I wanted to visit
this beach too.
Kaede, are you sure
you're all right?
-Yeah.
-Really?
Then how about we all go down
to the beach?
Don't worry about it, Nodoka.
You're what we should
be worried about.
[giggles]
[UKUZI] But I'm having
a lot of fun
at the school
I'm going to, though
I really didn't know
what to think of it at first.
I was just a little kid then.
[NODOKA] Well, isn't everyone
like that?
[SAKUTA] What do you mean
by "like that?"
[NODOKA] I mean
or "part-time classes
I think it's cool you don't
have to go to school every day.
I wish I got to stay home.
No, people who can go to school
every day should not say that.
Yeah, you're right.
But I will say
that you're still open
to all of this.
[SAKUTA]
Well, in my case
I feel like I definitely
got my eyes opened
at the orientation.
Totally. I was the same way
about it, too.
I thought that school
was a set place
where you went at a set time
to sit in an assigned seat
with a set group of people
that were set beforehand.
So is that wrong?
I think that it can be right
sometimes.
But when we all got together
for the orientation on campus
they told us that things
could be different.
I didn't have to change myself
for the school.
There were lots of
other places I could go
to learn that worked with me
to figure out the best way.
[SAKUTA] So, was it
the orientation
that made you want to join?
Uh, no.
But I think I got all
my thoughts straightened out
in the car ride on the way home.
I thought it might be
a good idea
but I was still kind of feeling
weird about it, you know?
And that was when
my mom said to me
"When I was pregnant with you
everyone around me
was against me
having a baby
when I was so young."
See, my mom had gotten
pregnant with me
when she was only 18.
[SAKUTA] And yet, here she is
and a wonderful person.
[UZUKI] Yep.
It didn't matter what
everyone wanted.
My mom still gave birth to me
and has spent every moment
doing her best to raise me.
When I heard that
I wanted to know
who everyone was.
So, I seriously asked
my mom who they were.
"Who told you to give me up?"
What did your mom
have to say to that?
She said, "Uzuki
your happiness is not determined
by the people around you.
Only you can make you happy."
[SAKUTA]
Now that's a heck of a mom.
[NODOKA]
Yeah, man, she's super cool.
[KAEDE] Okay, so the reason
you chose to go to
your current school
was because your mom showed you.
It was thanks to Nodoka, too.
-Huh?
-And not just her, either.
All of the Sweet Bullet members
were really supportive.
When I wasn't able
to go to school
all of them were there
to stick it out with me
and the fans are
a part of it too.
I had a hard time fitting in
in my old school
but after a while
that I had my group members
They're everyone that I know
There might be even
more "everyones"
that I haven't gotten
to meet yet.
When I had that thought
that's when I decided to go
to this school.
And that's about it.
Would it be okay if I asked you
one more thing?
Ask as much as you want.
I wanted to know, um
between the you that
went to the old school
and the you that goes
to the new school
which do you like better?
I could never choose
one over the other.
My past self worked hard
to get here.
Now my current self exists.
[gasps]
I get it.
You are so right.
Mm-hmm. It's the truth.
[chuckles]
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28TH
[gasps] Look, there's Komi!
Hey, Komi!
Kaede! It's been two months.
Yep. Thank you so much
for coming.
Of course I'd come here.
I was so happy
to get that email.
And thank you so much
for coming here with her
to pick me up.
No worries.
I had to make a run to buy stuff
at the supermarket anyway.
[door opens]
Hello! Welcome, Kotomi.
Thanks for the invite.
Sakuta, did you buy
soy sauce?
I did.
So you send your emails
with this?
Yeah, Mai gave it to me.
It's not brand-new or anything
but I don't use it
Check this out, Komi.
It's a page about the school.
[KOTOMI] That's amazing.
You can take classes
on all this stuff?
And you can do it online.
Look, I even have
a homeroom teacher.
I can take the courses
I want at my own pace.
And for fields
I'm interested in
I get lessons
from vocational schools
that have ties to this one.
Really incredible.
I know, right?
Look at this, I can do all sorts
of studying.
No. You're incredible.
I am?
I mean, I didn't do
this much research
when I picked out
my high school.
My teacher saw my grades
and told me
which one I should go to
so I just went with that.
Kaede, you're so independent.
[chuckles]
[phone ringing]
[phone continues ringing]
Miss Miwako.
Do you mind
if I answer the phone?
Yeah. Please do.
Uh, hello?
Azusagawas.
Yes, hello.
This is Kaede.
Yes, my big brother
is here.
I thought I should answer
since I saw your name.
Yes.
Huh, I got accepted?
[BOTH] Huh?
Yes.
Okay.
She wants to speak to you.
Sakuta here.
[MIWAKO] I wanted to say
congratulations.
Kaede got accepted to
Minegahara High School.
Huh? She did?
It turns out they fell short
on their quota.
I thought you said
it was going to be
really competitive this year.
The number
of initial applicants
was over double their limit
so lots of students
avoided applying altogether.
There were social media
campaigns from hopefuls
telling other kids
they wouldn't make it in
if they applied.
Did they, now?
Regardless of how it
all happened
Kaede still got accepted
to Minegahara High.
All right.
There is paperwork to fill out
so when she decides what to do
Of course. Let me
talk it out with Kaede.
Big brother, I...
I don't want to go
to Minegahara.
I want to go to the school
I'll find myself.
[♪ piano music playing]
And then, Kaede...
[MAN] The school didn't meet
their quota?
[SAKUTA] Yeah.
Tomobe said she wanted
an answer sooner than later
because of the paperwork
and stuff.
About that, I was thinking
of giving you a call tonight.
Can you come over tomorrow?
Sure thing. I'll see
your mother at the hospital.
Then I'll head over.
And then after that...
All right, girls, it's time
for me to get to Benny's.
Oh, then I'll go ahead
and leave now, too.
My mother told me I shouldn't
do anything to trouble you guys
while I'm here.
You couldn't do anything
to trouble us.
Kaede is so amazing.
She is?
I'm trying to imagine myself
in her shoes.
I think I would've said
that I still wanted to try
going to a full-time school.
Is that 'cause
you feel comfortable
when you don't stand out?
Yeah.
Well, there are a lot of things
that lined up for Kaede.
She got the chance
to hear stories
about an online high school
from someone.
But still, I guess the fact
she chose her path
makes her pretty amazing.
Oh, you should definitely
tell Kaede that.
I'm sure it'd make her happy.
No way. She'll take it too far.
Then I'll just have to
tell her myself.
-Uh. Hold on.
-Oh.
She already replied to me.
What did she say?
She's asking if it was
her real big brother
who said that.
Sounds like a fake.
Hmm. Well, I guess that means
Kaede has the ability
to tell a joke now.
We made an effort to be
in line early, too.
Nothing to be done
if they're all sold out.
[laughing]
Come with me
when I get revenge, Kaede.
[KAEDE] Okay.
I can't wait for the
limited edition parfait.
KAEDE AZUSAGAWA
[♪ closing theme song playing]
MARCH 1ST
[SAKUTA]
So this is the last time
I'll see you in
school uniform.
And today is the last day
I get to go home
from school with you.
Shall we have one final walk
together?
Wait for me at the beach
after the ceremony.
Huh?
Mai, is that you?
Hi, mister.
Do I know you?
NEXT MOVIE RASCAL DOES NOT
DREAM OF A KNAPSACK KID